# FYP
Mushroom classification using Machine learning.This is my fyp which I have completed recently. In this project I collected data from different platforms like kaggle.com and uci machine learning repository etc. in csv formate. So I download multiple datasets which I have merged togeather. This dataset was very messy so I worked on it and preprocess the dataset by removing all duplicate and null values. The dataset has 8000+ rows and 23 columns. Then I split dataset into 70 percent training and 30 percent testing using test train split. After that the supervisor demands me to train this model on 3 different algorithms like logistic regression , decision tree and random forest etc but I implemented 7 different algorithms like logistic regression, decision tree, kneighbours, svc, random forest, gradient boosting and GaussianNB because of my interest in this field. After that I have made a confusion matrix to evaluate the performance of classification models. It is basically a square matrix with rows and columns representing the different classes of target variable.  Then I fit the model which is giving more accuracy like Random forest is giving the accuracy of 99.46…. which is the highest accuracy among all the other models. The other feature which I add in this project by my own it is not the requirement of fyp but I added this feature to facilitate the users. I made a GUI with the help of tkinter library which is a python library for making GUIs. And Joblib which is a commen used library in ML workflow to save trained model to disk and avoid retaining from scratch eachtime the program runs. By saving and loading models using joblib we can reuse pre-trained models and apply them to new data without the need for retaining.
